ee281.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: EE281 Electric Circuits
permalink: /ee281/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours (Section-1)
- Monday: 08:40-10:30 DZ-13 (Office Hour: 10:40-11:30)
- Thursday: 10:40-11:30 DZ-13

## [Syllabus](/files/EE281_syllabus_fall14_ozan.pdf)

## Presentations

- Week#1 (08/10): [Introduction](/presentations/ee281_intro.html)
- Week#2 (15/10): [Basic Laws](/presentations/ee281_basic_laws.html)
- Week#3 (19/10): [Basic Laws-2](/presentations/ee281_basic_laws2.html)
- Week#3 (22/10): [Delta-Wye Connections](/presentations/ee281_delta_wye.html)
- Week#4 (26/10): [Node Voltage Analysis](/presentations/ee281_nodal_analysis.html)
- Week#5 (02/11): [Supernode](/presentations/ee281_supernode.html)
- Week#6 (09/11): [Mesh Analysis-Supermesh](/presentations/ee281_supermesh.html)
- Week#6 (12/11): [Superposition-Source Transformations](/presentations/ee281_superposition.html)
- Week#7 (19/11): [Max. Power Transfer](/presentations/ee281_max_power_opamp.html)
- Week#8 (23/11): [OPAMP](/presentations/ee281_opamp.html)
- Week#9 (30/11): [Capacitors-Inductors](/presentations/ee281_capacitor_inductor.html)
- Week#9 (03/12): [First Order Circuits](/presentations/ee281_opamp_first_order.html)
- Week#10 (07/12): [First Order Circuits-2](/presentations/ee281_first_order2.html)
- Week#12 (21/12): [First Order Applications](/presentations/ee281_first_order_applications.html)
- Week#12 (24/12): [Example Problems](/presentations/ee281_exercises.html)
- Week#13 (28/12): [Phasors-Sinusoids](/presentations/ee281_sinusoids_phasors.html)


## Lecture Notes
- [EE281-GitBook](http://ozank.gitbooks.io/ee281/)

<!--
##Homeworks - Exercises
- [HMW#1](/files/ee281_hw1.pdf) - [Solutions](/files/ee281_hw1_solutions.pdf)
- [Node Voltage Exercise Solutions](/files/ee281_ex1.pdf)
- [Midterm1](/files/ee281_MT1_F2014.pdf)
- [Midterm2](/files/ee281_MT2_F2014.pdf)
-->

## Textbooks
- Electric Circuits, 8th Ed. James W. Nilsson, Susan A. Riedel, Prentice Hall, 2008. (Preferred)
- Electric Circuit Analysis, 3rd Ed. D.E. Johnson, J.R. Johnson, J.L. Hilburn, P.D.Scott, Prentice Hall, 1997.

## Online Sources:

### Free & Open-Source
- [All About Circuits](http://www.allaboutcircuits.com/vol_1/)
- [Lessons in Electric Circuits](http://www.faqs.org/docs/electric/)
- [Nodal Analysis e-book](http://www.solved-problems.com/download/NodalAnalysis.pdf)
- [Wiki Books - Circuit Theory](http://www.faqs.org/docs/electric/)
- [MIT Open Courseware](http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm)
  - [Circuits and Electronics](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-002-circuits-and-electronics-spring-2007/index.htm)
  - [Introduction to Electronics, Signals, and Measurement](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-071j-introduction-to-electronics-signals-and-measurement-spring-2006/index.htm)
  - [Practical Electronics](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/special-programs/sp-764-practical-electronics-fall-2004/)

### Other
- [PSU ECE-221 Course Notes](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~ece2xx/ECE221/Lectures/)
- [Schaum's Electric Circuits](http://accessengineeringlibrary.com/browse/schaums-outline-of-electric-circuits-sixth-edition)
- [Circuit Analysis-1](http://www.ece.ubc.ca/~shahriar/eece251.html)
- [Iowa State EE442 Notes](http://home.eng.iastate.edu/~gamari/EE442_F12/Tuttle_EE442/)

## Course Outline:
From Nilsson & Riedel:

1. Basic Concepts (Ch. 1)
2. Basic Laws (Ch. 2)
3. Resistive Circuits (Ch. 3)
4. Methods of Analysis (Ch. 4)
5. Circuit Theorems (Ch. 4)
6. Operational Amplifiers (Ch. 5)
7. Capacitors And Inductors (Ch.6 upto 6.5)
8. First Order Circuits (Ch. 7)
9. Phasors and Sinusoids (Ch. 9)

Commit message:

link for presentation pdf files

ee281.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: EE281 Electric Circuits
permalink: /ee281/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours (Section-1)
- Monday: 08:40-10:30 DZ-13 (Office Hour: 10:40-11:30)
- Thursday: 10:40-11:30 DZ-13

## [Syllabus](/files/EE281_syllabus_fall14_ozan.pdf)

## Presentations

You can download PDF versions of all presentations from [this link](https://www.dropbox.com/s/plsi0pk3xjnp09x/ee281_presentations.zip?dl=1). Note that, PDF versions can be slightly out-dated, so please check the html versions for the newest version.

- Week#1 (08/10): [Introduction](/presentations/ee281_intro.html)
- Week#2 (15/10): [Basic Laws](/presentations/ee281_basic_laws.html)
- Week#3 (19/10): [Basic Laws-2](/presentations/ee281_basic_laws2.html)
- Week#3 (22/10): [Delta-Wye Connections](/presentations/ee281_delta_wye.html)
- Week#4 (26/10): [Node Voltage Analysis](/presentations/ee281_nodal_analysis.html)
- Week#5 (02/11): [Supernode](/presentations/ee281_supernode.html)
- Week#6 (09/11): [Mesh Analysis-Supermesh](/presentations/ee281_supermesh.html)
- Week#6 (12/11): [Superposition-Source Transformations](/presentations/ee281_superposition.html)
- Week#7 (19/11): [Max. Power Transfer](/presentations/ee281_max_power_opamp.html)
- Week#8 (23/11): [OPAMP](/presentations/ee281_opamp.html)
- Week#9 (30/11): [Capacitors-Inductors](/presentations/ee281_capacitor_inductor.html)
- Week#9 (03/12): [First Order Circuits](/presentations/ee281_opamp_first_order.html)
- Week#10 (07/12): [First Order Circuits-2](/presentations/ee281_first_order2.html)
- Week#12 (21/12): [First Order Applications](/presentations/ee281_first_order_applications.html)
- Week#12 (24/12): [Example Problems](/presentations/ee281_exercises.html)
- Week#13 (28/12): [Phasors-Sinusoids](/presentations/ee281_sinusoids_phasors.html)


## Lecture Notes
- [EE281-GitBook](http://ozank.gitbooks.io/ee281/)

<!--
##Homeworks - Exercises
- [HMW#1](/files/ee281_hw1.pdf) - [Solutions](/files/ee281_hw1_solutions.pdf)
- [Node Voltage Exercise Solutions](/files/ee281_ex1.pdf)
- [Midterm1](/files/ee281_MT1_F2014.pdf)
- [Midterm2](/files/ee281_MT2_F2014.pdf)
-->

## Textbooks
- Electric Circuits, 8th Ed. James W. Nilsson, Susan A. Riedel, Prentice Hall, 2008. (Preferred)
- Electric Circuit Analysis, 3rd Ed. D.E. Johnson, J.R. Johnson, J.L. Hilburn, P.D.Scott, Prentice Hall, 1997.

## Online Sources:

### Free & Open-Source
- [All About Circuits](http://www.allaboutcircuits.com/vol_1/)
- [Lessons in Electric Circuits](http://www.faqs.org/docs/electric/)
- [Nodal Analysis e-book](http://www.solved-problems.com/download/NodalAnalysis.pdf)
- [Wiki Books - Circuit Theory](http://www.faqs.org/docs/electric/)
- [MIT Open Courseware](http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm)
  - [Circuits and Electronics](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-002-circuits-and-electronics-spring-2007/index.htm)
  - [Introduction to Electronics, Signals, and Measurement](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-071j-introduction-to-electronics-signals-and-measurement-spring-2006/index.htm)
  - [Practical Electronics](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/special-programs/sp-764-practical-electronics-fall-2004/)

### Other
- [PSU ECE-221 Course Notes](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~ece2xx/ECE221/Lectures/)
- [Schaum's Electric Circuits](http://accessengineeringlibrary.com/browse/schaums-outline-of-electric-circuits-sixth-edition)
- [Circuit Analysis-1](http://www.ece.ubc.ca/~shahriar/eece251.html)
- [Iowa State EE442 Notes](http://home.eng.iastate.edu/~gamari/EE442_F12/Tuttle_EE442/)

## Course Outline:
From Nilsson & Riedel:

1. Basic Concepts (Ch. 1)
2. Basic Laws (Ch. 2)
3. Resistive Circuits (Ch. 3)
4. Methods of Analysis (Ch. 4)
5. Circuit Theorems (Ch. 4)
6. Operational Amplifiers (Ch. 5)
7. Capacitors And Inductors (Ch.6 upto 6.5)
8. First Order Circuits (Ch. 7)
9. Phasors and Sinusoids (Ch. 9)
