ee361.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: EE361 Electromechanical Energy Conversion-I
permalink: /ee361/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours (Section-3)
- Wednesday: 15:40-17:30 EA-307
- Friday: 11:40-12:30 EA-310 (Office Hour: 10:40-11:30)

## Presentations

- Week#1 (07/10): [Introduction](/presentations/ee361_intro.html)
- Week#1 (09/10): [Magnetic Circuits](/presentations/ee361_magnetic_circuits.html)
- Week#2 (14/10): [Magnetic Circuits2](/presentations/ee361_magnetic_circuits2.html)
- Week#2 (16/10): [Magnetic losses](/presentations/ee361_hystresis_losses.html)
- Week#3 (21/10): [Permanent Magnets](/presentations/ee361_magnets.html)
- Week#3 (21/10): [AC Excitation, Mutual Inductance](/presentations/ee361_ac_excitation.html)
- Week#3 (23/10): [Magnetic Energy](/presentations/ee361_magnetic_energy.html)
- Week#5 (03/11): [Ideal Transformers](/presentations/ee361_ideal_transformers.html)
- Week#5 (06/11): [Practical Transformers](/presentations/ee361_practical_transformers.html)
- Week#7 (18/11): [No Load-Short Circuit Tests](/presentations/ee361_no_load_short_circuit.html)
- Week#7 (20/11): [Voltage Regulation-Efficiency](/presentations/ee361_voltage_regulation.html)
- Week#8 (25/11): [Recitation Hour](/presentations/ee361_recitation.html)
- Week#8 (27/11): [Three Phase Transformers](/presentations/ee361_3phase_transformers.html	)
- Week#9 (02/12): [Per Unit System](/presentations/ee361_per_unit.html)
- Week#10 (11/12): [Electromechanical Energy Conversion](/presentations/ee361_electromechanical_conversion.html)
- Week#11 (16/12): [Virtual Work-Examples](/presentations/ee361_virtual_work.html)
- Week#12 (23/12): [Multiply-Excited Systems](/presentations/ee361_multiply_excited.html)
- Week#13 (30/12): [DC Machines](/presentations/ee361_dc_machine.html)
- Week#13 (01/01): [DC Machine Types](/presentations/ee361_dc_machine_types.html)


<!--
If you're clever enough to see this page, you are free to have a look at all presentations, which will be updated in the following weeks.

- Week#13 (24/12): [DC Motors](/presentations/ee361_dc_motors.html)
- Week#14 (29/12): [Speed Control of DC Motors](/presentations/ee361_dc_motors_speed_control.html)
-->

## Lecture Notes:
- [EE361-GitBook](http://ozank.gitbooks.io/ee361): (will be updated weekly).

<!--
## Solved Problems
- [Magnetic Circuits](/files/ee361_solved_problems_1.pdf)
- [HMW#1-2010](/files/ee361_solved_problems_1a.pdf)-[HMW#1 Solutions](/files/ee361_solved_problems_1a_solutions.pdf)
- [Transformers](/files/ee361_solved_problems_2.pdf)
-->

## Textbooks
- Electric Machinery, Fitzgerald, Kingsley and Umans, McGraw-Hill, 7th ed. 2013.
- Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru and Hızıroğlu, Saunders College Publishing, 3rd ed. 2001.

## Online References:
- [Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1,20,35,B/l856~b1417325&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4,,4,1,0/indexsort=-): Available as e-book from [METU Library](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1%2C20%2C35%2CB/frameset&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4%2C%2C4/indexsort=-)
- [TU Delft Electrical Machines and Drives Course](http://ocw.tudelft.nl/courses/master-electrical-engineering/electrical-machines-and-drives/lectures/)
- [University of Nevada-EE430](http://www.egr.unlv.edu/~eebag/teaching.html)

## Grading:
- Two Midterms: 20% (Each)
- Final: 30%
- Lab: 20% (Attending to all lab sessions are compulsory to receive a passing grade)
- Homeworks: 4%
- Attendance: 4%
- Electrical Safety Exam 4 % (2% bonus)

## Course Outline:

| Week | Subject |Guru | Fitzgerald |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| |**INTRODUCTION** |||
| 1 | Why Energy Conversion? |  |  |
| 1 | Power System, Electromechanical Energy Conversion |  |  |
| 1 | A Short Review of Turkish Power System |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
| |**MAGNETIC CIRCUITS** |||
| 1 | Magnetic Circuits | 2.4, 3.3 | 1.1 |
| 1-2 | Flux Linkage, Inductance & Energy| 2.5 | 1.2 |
| 2 | Magnetic Materials | 2.3 | 1.3 |
| 2-3 | AC Excitation & Losses | 2.7 | 1.4 |
| 3 | Permanent Magnets | 2.8 | 1.5-1.7 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
| | **TRANSFORMERS** | | |
| 4 | Ideal Transformer | 4.3 | 2.3 |
| 4-5 | Equivalent Circuits, Power & Variable Frequency Transformers | 4.4 | 2.4 |
| 5 | Short-circuit & Open-circuit Tests | 4.7 | 2.4-2.5 |
| 5-6 | Auto-transformers & Multi-circuit Transformers | 4.9 | 2.6 |
| 6-7 | Transformers in Three-phase Circuits | 4.10 | 2.7 |
| 7 | Per-unit System | 4.8 | 2.8 |
| 7 | Electrical Safety |  |  |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | **ELECTROMECHANICAL ENERGY CONVERSION** |  |  |
| 8 | Forces & Torques in Magnetic Field Systems | 3.1 | 3.1 |
| 9 | Energy Balance | 3.1 | 3.2 |
| 9 | Singly-excited Systems | 3.7 | 3.3 |
| 9 | Determination of  Magnetic Force (torque) | 3.7 | 3.4 |
| 9-10| Multiply-excited systems | 3.8 | 3.5 |
| 10 | Permanent Magnet Systems |  | 3.7 |
| 10-11 | Dynamic Equations & Analytical Techniques |  | 3.8 |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | **DC MACHINES** | | |
| 11 | Introduction: Principle of Operation | 5.1-5.6 | 7.1 |
| 11 | Commutation Action, Induced EMF | 5.7 | 7.2 |
| 12-13 | Electric-Magnetic Circuit Aspects | | 7.4-7.5 |
| 13 | DC Generators | 5.9-5.10 | 7.9-7.10 |
| 13-14 | DC Motors | 6.1 | 7.9-7.10 |
| 12 | Armature Reaction | 5.8 | 7.3 |
| 14 | Speed Control of DC Motors | 6.8-6.9 | 11.1 |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |

Commit message:

link for presentation pdf files

ee361.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: EE361 Electromechanical Energy Conversion-I
permalink: /ee361/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours (Section-3)
- Wednesday: 15:40-17:30 EA-307
- Friday: 11:40-12:30 EA-310 (Office Hour: 10:40-11:30)

## Presentations

You can download PDF versions of all presentations from [this link](https://www.dropbox.com/s/etmfv21s7zdxoft/ee361_presentations.zip?dl=1). Note that, PDF versions can be slightly out-dated, so please check the html versions for the newest version.

- Week#1 (07/10): [Introduction](/presentations/ee361_intro.html)
- Week#1 (09/10): [Magnetic Circuits](/presentations/ee361_magnetic_circuits.html)
- Week#2 (14/10): [Magnetic Circuits2](/presentations/ee361_magnetic_circuits2.html)
- Week#2 (16/10): [Magnetic losses](/presentations/ee361_hystresis_losses.html)
- Week#3 (21/10): [Permanent Magnets](/presentations/ee361_magnets.html)
- Week#3 (21/10): [AC Excitation, Mutual Inductance](/presentations/ee361_ac_excitation.html)
- Week#3 (23/10): [Magnetic Energy](/presentations/ee361_magnetic_energy.html)
- Week#5 (03/11): [Ideal Transformers](/presentations/ee361_ideal_transformers.html)
- Week#5 (06/11): [Practical Transformers](/presentations/ee361_practical_transformers.html)
- Week#7 (18/11): [No Load-Short Circuit Tests](/presentations/ee361_no_load_short_circuit.html)
- Week#7 (20/11): [Voltage Regulation-Efficiency](/presentations/ee361_voltage_regulation.html)
- Week#8 (25/11): [Recitation Hour](/presentations/ee361_recitation.html)
- Week#8 (27/11): [Three Phase Transformers](/presentations/ee361_3phase_transformers.html	)
- Week#9 (02/12): [Per Unit System](/presentations/ee361_per_unit.html)
- Week#10 (11/12): [Electromechanical Energy Conversion](/presentations/ee361_electromechanical_conversion.html)
- Week#11 (16/12): [Virtual Work-Examples](/presentations/ee361_virtual_work.html)
- Week#12 (23/12): [Multiply-Excited Systems](/presentations/ee361_multiply_excited.html)
- Week#13 (30/12): [DC Machines](/presentations/ee361_dc_machine.html)
- Week#13 (01/01): [DC Machine Types](/presentations/ee361_dc_machine_types.html)


<!--
If you're clever enough to see this page, you are free to have a look at all presentations, which will be updated in the following weeks.

- Week#13 (24/12): [DC Motors](/presentations/ee361_dc_motors.html)
- Week#14 (29/12): [Speed Control of DC Motors](/presentations/ee361_dc_motors_speed_control.html)
-->

## Lecture Notes:
- [EE361-GitBook](http://ozank.gitbooks.io/ee361): (will be updated weekly).

<!--
## Solved Problems
- [Magnetic Circuits](/files/ee361_solved_problems_1.pdf)
- [HMW#1-2010](/files/ee361_solved_problems_1a.pdf)-[HMW#1 Solutions](/files/ee361_solved_problems_1a_solutions.pdf)
- [Transformers](/files/ee361_solved_problems_2.pdf)
-->

## Textbooks
- Electric Machinery, Fitzgerald, Kingsley and Umans, McGraw-Hill, 7th ed. 2013.
- Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru and Hızıroğlu, Saunders College Publishing, 3rd ed. 2001.

## Online References:
- [Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1,20,35,B/l856~b1417325&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4,,4,1,0/indexsort=-): Available as e-book from [METU Library](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1%2C20%2C35%2CB/frameset&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4%2C%2C4/indexsort=-)
- [TU Delft Electrical Machines and Drives Course](http://ocw.tudelft.nl/courses/master-electrical-engineering/electrical-machines-and-drives/lectures/)
- [University of Nevada-EE430](http://www.egr.unlv.edu/~eebag/teaching.html)

## Grading:
- Two Midterms: 20% (Each)
- Final: 30%
- Lab: 20% (Attending to all lab sessions are compulsory to receive a passing grade)
- Homeworks: 4%
- Attendance: 4%
- Electrical Safety Exam 4 % (2% bonus)

## Course Outline:

| Week | Subject |Guru | Fitzgerald |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| |**INTRODUCTION** |||
| 1 | Why Energy Conversion? |  |  |
| 1 | Power System, Electromechanical Energy Conversion |  |  |
| 1 | A Short Review of Turkish Power System |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
| |**MAGNETIC CIRCUITS** |||
| 1 | Magnetic Circuits | 2.4, 3.3 | 1.1 |
| 1-2 | Flux Linkage, Inductance & Energy| 2.5 | 1.2 |
| 2 | Magnetic Materials | 2.3 | 1.3 |
| 2-3 | AC Excitation & Losses | 2.7 | 1.4 |
| 3 | Permanent Magnets | 2.8 | 1.5-1.7 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
| | **TRANSFORMERS** | | |
| 4 | Ideal Transformer | 4.3 | 2.3 |
| 4-5 | Equivalent Circuits, Power & Variable Frequency Transformers | 4.4 | 2.4 |
| 5 | Short-circuit & Open-circuit Tests | 4.7 | 2.4-2.5 |
| 5-6 | Auto-transformers & Multi-circuit Transformers | 4.9 | 2.6 |
| 6-7 | Transformers in Three-phase Circuits | 4.10 | 2.7 |
| 7 | Per-unit System | 4.8 | 2.8 |
| 7 | Electrical Safety |  |  |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | **ELECTROMECHANICAL ENERGY CONVERSION** |  |  |
| 8 | Forces & Torques in Magnetic Field Systems | 3.1 | 3.1 |
| 9 | Energy Balance | 3.1 | 3.2 |
| 9 | Singly-excited Systems | 3.7 | 3.3 |
| 9 | Determination of  Magnetic Force (torque) | 3.7 | 3.4 |
| 9-10| Multiply-excited systems | 3.8 | 3.5 |
| 10 | Permanent Magnet Systems |  | 3.7 |
| 10-11 | Dynamic Equations & Analytical Techniques |  | 3.8 |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | **DC MACHINES** | | |
| 11 | Introduction: Principle of Operation | 5.1-5.6 | 7.1 |
| 11 | Commutation Action, Induced EMF | 5.7 | 7.2 |
| 12-13 | Electric-Magnetic Circuit Aspects | | 7.4-7.5 |
| 13 | DC Generators | 5.9-5.10 | 7.9-7.10 |
| 13-14 | DC Motors | 6.1 | 7.9-7.10 |
| 12 | Armature Reaction | 5.8 | 7.3 |
| 14 | Speed Control of DC Motors | 6.8-6.9 | 11.1 |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
