ee362.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: EE362 Electromechanical Energy Conversion-II
permalink: /ee362/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours (Section-5)
- Monday:	12:40-14:30 EA209
- Wednesday: 09:40-10:30 EA207
- Office Hour: Wednesday 10:40-11:30

##Lecture Notes:

- Week#1 (16/02): [Introduction](/presentations/ee362_intro.html)
- Week#1 (18/02): [Review](/presentations/ee362_review.html)
- Week#2 (23/02): [Induction in a coil- Rotating MMF](/presentations/ee362_induction.html)
- Week#2 (25/02): [Pole-pitch, harmonics, electrical angle](/presentations/ee362_pole_pitch.html)
- Week#3 (02/03): [MMF Distribution](/presentations/ee362_mmf_distribution.html)
- Week#4 (09/03): [Winding Factors, Rotating MMF](/presentations/ee362_rotating_mmf.html)
- Week#4 (11/03): [Example](/presentations/ee362_rotating_mmf_example.html)
- Week#5 (16/03): [Example-2](/presentations/ee362_mmf_exercise.html)
- Week#5 (18/03): [Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motors.html)
- Week#6 (23/03): [Equivalent Circuit of Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_equivalent_circuit.html)
- Week#6 (25/03): [Power Flow of Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_power_torque.html)
- Week#7 (30/03): [Torque in Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_torque_curve.html)
- Week#7 (01/04): [Starting Current in Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_starting_current.html)
- Week#8 (08/04): [Operation Modes](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_control.html)
- Week#8 (08/04): [Recitation Hour](/presentations/ee362_recitation.html)
- Week#9 (13/04): [Speed Control - Synchronous Machines](/presentations/ee362_induction_VF_synchronous_motors.html)
- Week#9 (15/04): [Synchronous Machines](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_motors.html)
- Week#10 (20/04): [Synchronous Machine Equivalent Circuit](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_equivalent.html)
- Week#10 (22/04): [Synchronous Generator Voltage Regulation](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_voltage_regulation.html)
- Week#11 (27/04): [Synchronous Machine Operating Modes](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_parallel_power.html)
- Week#11 (29/04): [Synchronous Machine V-curves, Power-Torque Relation](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_v_curves.html)
- Week#12 (04/05): [Salient Pole Synchronous Machines](/presentations/ee362_power_salient.html)
- Week#13 (11/05): [Synchronous Machine Exercises](/presentations/ee362_synch_problems.html)
- Week#13 (13/05): [Single Phase Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_single_phase_induction.html)
- Week#14 (13/05): [Recitation Hour](/presentations/ee362_recitation2.html)

[How can I convert slides to pdf?](https://github.com/gnab/remark/issues/50): In Chrome, use print preview then save to pdf.

## Textbooks
- Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru and Hızıroğlu, Saunders College Publishing, 3rd ed. 2001.
- Electric Machinery, Fitzgerald, Kingsley and Umans, McGraw-Hill, 6th ed. 2003.

## Grading:

- Two Midterms: 20% (Each)
- Final: 30%
- Laboratory: 20% (Attending to all lab sessions are compulsory)
- Homeworks: 5%
- Attendance: 5%

## Online References:
- [Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1,20,35,B/l856~b1417325&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4,,4,1,0/indexsort=-): Available as e-book from [METU Library](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1%2C20%2C35%2CB/frameset&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4%2C%2C4/indexsort=-)
- [Electric Machines and Drives - UoM](http://cusp.umn.edu/electric_drives.php)
- [TU Delft Electrical Machines and Drives Course](http://ocw.tudelft.nl/courses/master-electrical-engineering/electrical-machines-and-drives/lectures/)
- [University of Nevada-EE430](http://www.egr.unlv.edu/~eebag/teaching.html)
- [ECE-320](http://www.egr.msu.edu/~fzpeng/ECE320/)
- [Andy Knight-Electrical Machines](http://people.ucalgary.ca/~aknigh/electrical_machines/fundamentals/f_ac.html)
- [Electrical Machine Animations](http://www.ece.umn.edu/users/riaz/animations/listanimations.html)
- [Real-Reactive Power](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UWq0nwKNa3m12aX-A91ea0HT4p0vRpfnZPuwFDwHvIQ/edit?usp=sharing)

Commit message:

link for presentation pdf files

ee362.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: EE362 Electromechanical Energy Conversion-II
permalink: /ee362/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours (Section-5)
- Monday:	12:40-14:30 EA209
- Wednesday: 09:40-10:30 EA207
- Office Hour: Wednesday 10:40-11:30

## Presentations

You can download PDF versions of all presentations from [this link](https://www.dropbox.com/s/27owgopll991p83/ee362_presentations.zip?dl=1). Note that, PDF versions can be slightly out-dated, so please check the html versions for the newest version.


- Week#1 (16/02): [Introduction](/presentations/ee362_intro.html)
- Week#1 (18/02): [Review](/presentations/ee362_review.html)
- Week#2 (23/02): [Induction in a coil- Rotating MMF](/presentations/ee362_induction.html)
- Week#2 (25/02): [Pole-pitch, harmonics, electrical angle](/presentations/ee362_pole_pitch.html)
- Week#3 (02/03): [MMF Distribution](/presentations/ee362_mmf_distribution.html)
- Week#4 (09/03): [Winding Factors, Rotating MMF](/presentations/ee362_rotating_mmf.html)
- Week#4 (11/03): [Example](/presentations/ee362_rotating_mmf_example.html)
- Week#5 (16/03): [Example-2](/presentations/ee362_mmf_exercise.html)
- Week#5 (18/03): [Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motors.html)
- Week#6 (23/03): [Equivalent Circuit of Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_equivalent_circuit.html)
- Week#6 (25/03): [Power Flow of Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_power_torque.html)
- Week#7 (30/03): [Torque in Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_torque_curve.html)
- Week#7 (01/04): [Starting Current in Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_starting_current.html)
- Week#8 (08/04): [Operation Modes](/presentations/ee362_induction_motor_control.html)
- Week#8 (08/04): [Recitation Hour](/presentations/ee362_recitation.html)
- Week#9 (13/04): [Speed Control - Synchronous Machines](/presentations/ee362_induction_VF_synchronous_motors.html)
- Week#9 (15/04): [Synchronous Machines](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_motors.html)
- Week#10 (20/04): [Synchronous Machine Equivalent Circuit](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_equivalent.html)
- Week#10 (22/04): [Synchronous Generator Voltage Regulation](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_voltage_regulation.html)
- Week#11 (27/04): [Synchronous Machine Operating Modes](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_parallel_power.html)
- Week#11 (29/04): [Synchronous Machine V-curves, Power-Torque Relation](/presentations/ee362_synchronous_v_curves.html)
- Week#12 (04/05): [Salient Pole Synchronous Machines](/presentations/ee362_power_salient.html)
- Week#13 (11/05): [Synchronous Machine Exercises](/presentations/ee362_synch_problems.html)
- Week#13 (13/05): [Single Phase Induction Motors](/presentations/ee362_single_phase_induction.html)
- Week#14 (13/05): [Recitation Hour](/presentations/ee362_recitation2.html)

[How can I convert slides to pdf?](https://github.com/gnab/remark/issues/50): In Chrome, use print preview then save to pdf.

## Textbooks
- Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru and Hızıroğlu, Saunders College Publishing, 3rd ed. 2001.
- Electric Machinery, Fitzgerald, Kingsley and Umans, McGraw-Hill, 6th ed. 2003.

## Grading:

- Two Midterms: 20% (Each)
- Final: 30%
- Laboratory: 20% (Attending to all lab sessions are compulsory)
- Homeworks: 5%
- Attendance: 5%

## Online References:
- [Electric Machinery & Transformers, Guru](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1,20,35,B/l856~b1417325&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4,,4,1,0/indexsort=-): Available as e-book from [METU Library](http://library.metu.edu.tr/search~S4?/aguru/aguru/1%2C20%2C35%2CB/frameset&FF=aguru+bhag+s&4%2C%2C4/indexsort=-)
- [Electric Machines and Drives - UoM](http://cusp.umn.edu/electric_drives.php)
- [TU Delft Electrical Machines and Drives Course](http://ocw.tudelft.nl/courses/master-electrical-engineering/electrical-machines-and-drives/lectures/)
- [University of Nevada-EE430](http://www.egr.unlv.edu/~eebag/teaching.html)
- [ECE-320](http://www.egr.msu.edu/~fzpeng/ECE320/)
- [Andy Knight-Electrical Machines](http://people.ucalgary.ca/~aknigh/electrical_machines/fundamentals/f_ac.html)
- [Electrical Machine Animations](http://www.ece.umn.edu/users/riaz/animations/listanimations.html)
- [Real-Reactive Power](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UWq0nwKNa3m12aX-A91ea0HT4p0vRpfnZPuwFDwHvIQ/edit?usp=sharing)
