ee564.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: EE564 Design of Electrical Machines
permalink: /ee564/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours
- Monday 16:40-17:30 D135
- Wednesday 13:40-15:30 D135

## Brief Info:
This course covers basic design principles of electrical machines. You will be able to design main parameters of an electric machine such as magnetic and electric loading, number of slots, winding dimensions. Thermal and structural design of electric machines will be also covered. You will use FEA software and optimization tools to determine the best parameters.

## Presentations:
- Week#1 (18/02): [Review](/presentations/ee564_intro.html)
- Week#2 (23/02): [Review-2](/presentations/ee564_intro2.html)
- Week#2 (25/02): [Transformer Design](/presentations/ee564_transformer_design.html)
- Week#3 (02/03): [Main Machine Parameters](/presentations/ee564_machine_sizing.html)
- Week#4 (09/03): [MMF Exercise](/presentations/ee564_mmf_exercise.html)
- Week#5 (16/03): [Basic Machine Dimensions](/presentations/ee564_basic_machine_design.html)
- Week#5 (18/03): [Number of slots](/presentations/ee564_basic_machine_design2.html)
- Week#6 (23/03): Carter's Coefficient, Effective Length
- Week#6 (25/03): [Tooth-Back core Flux](/presentations/ee564_tooth_flux.html)
- Week#7 (01/04): [Magnetizing Current - Magnetic Losses](/presentations/ee564_magnetizing_current_losses.html)
- Week#8 (08/04): [Resistance](/presentations/ee564_resistances.html)
- Week#9 (15/04): [Thermal Design](/presentations/ee564_thermal_design.html)

## Textbooks
- [Design of Rotating Electrical Machines](http://eu.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470740086.html), Juha Pyrhonen, Tapani Jokinen, Valeria Hrabovcova, 2009

## Grading:
- 1st Project: 15%
- 2nd Project: 25%
- Presentation: 20%
- Final: 30% (Open Book)
- Participation: 10%

## Second Project Topics

Please visit the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/odtu/ee564) for project topics and design requirements.

## First Project Topics (Deadline: 29/04):
Here are the options for the first project:
The full guidelines are given at the end of this page.

1- Design and manufacture an electric motor (or coil gun, or induction furnace)

2- Simulate the motion of two magnets repelling each other

3- Design a junkyard magnet

## Presentation Topics

Please choose one topic from below, and fill in the [online spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/173FqykIj7HfWxBJXid-JUIKdqOeXsMr1O3MJ19IN08g/edit?usp=sharing) to book your topic and date. First-come first served.

The full guidelines are given at the end of this page.

- Doubly-fed induction generators
- [Linear permanent magnet machines, Aydın Başkaya](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/aydin_linear_machines.pdf)
- Low-speed direct-drive permanent magnet machines
- [Ultra-high speed machines-Umut Güvengir](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/UHSM.pdf)
- Claw pole machines
- Superconducting machines
- Very large synchronous machines (>50 MVA)
- Micro-machines
- Fault-tolerant electric machines
- Spherical and conical electric machines
- Modular (with soft magnetic composite) machines
- [PM assisted reluctance motors, İlker Şahin](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/PMaRM_ilker.pdf)
- [Axial-flux air-cored machines, Ziya Ozkan](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/axial_flux_ziya_ozkan.pdf)

## Online References:
- [Motor Engineer - Electric Machine Design](http://www.motor-engineer.net/engineering-center/learn/tutorial-electric-machine-design-hendershot/)
- [Electric Machines - MIT](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-685-electric-machines-fall-2013/index.htm)
- [Electric Machine Design - UoM](http://cusp.umn.edu/machine_design.php)
- [Motor Design Course](https://noppa.aalto.fi/noppa/kurssi/s-17.3030/luennot)
- [Wiley Online Library](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/subject/code/EG40/titles): (browse using METU Library)

## Software
Here you can find a few useful software on electric machine design and FEA.

#### Free/Open-Source
- [FEMM](http://www.femm.info/wiki/HomePage): 2D FEA Software
- [Motor Analysis](http://motoranalysis.com/): MATLAB GUI for induction motor design
- [Koil](http://koil.sourceforge.net/): A winding tool
- [Emetor Winding](https://www.emetor.com/edit/windings/): A tool to calculate winding factors, harmonics etc
- [Homebuilt electric motors](http://www.bavaria-direct.co.za/scheme/calculator/): Tools for brushless PM motors
- [Syre](http://sourceforge.net/projects/syr-e/) - Synchronous reluctance machine design and optimization tool

#### Commercial Products
- [Opera FEA](http://operafea.com/): 3D Electromagnetic, Thermal FEA (also models supercodnuctors)
- [MagSoft](http://magsoft-flux.com/): Flux, Portunus, Speed
- [EMWorks](http://www.emworks.com/)
- [Infolytica](http://www.infolytica.com/)
- [JMag](http://www.jmag-international.com/index.html)
- [Motor-Design](http://www.motor-design.com/index.php): EM and lumped thermal analysis
- [Quick Field](http://www.quickfield.com/free_soft.htm): Free Student edition
- [Emetor](https://www.emetor.com): Cloud FEA, free student edition
- [Quick Field](http://www.quickfield.com/): Free student edition

### Other Useful Links
- [Electric Machines](http://www.electricaleasy.com/p/electrical-machines.html)
- [AC Harmonic Phase Sequences](http://www.allaboutcircuits.com/vol_2/chpt_10/8.html)
- [Electric Machine Animations](http://www.ece.umn.edu/users/riaz/animations/listanimations.html)
- [Electric Machine Animations-2](http://www.ece.umn.edu/users/riaz/anim/maccontents.html)


## Presentation Guidelines

- One topic should be presented only once. First come first served, so please fill in the [online spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/173FqykIj7HfWxBJXid-JUIKdqOeXsMr1O3MJ19IN08g/edit?usp=sharing) asap.
- You are allowed to swap presentations dates later, but if you miss your scheduled slot, you will get 0. 
- Presentation duration: 15 minutes (+5 minutes for QA).
- You will be evaluated by you classmates using the following [score sheet](/files/564_presentation_score_sheet.pdf)

- An ideal presentation should cover the following aspects:

  * Main working principles of the machine
  * A short history
  * Differences from other machines
  * Advantages/Disadvantages
  * Application Areas

- You should prepare a handout for the audience. Please note that handouts are not the printed version of your slides. They should be in parallel with your slides, but should have more information. At the end of the handouts, there should be a reading list(5-6 papers, books) for detailed information on the topic.
- If you use other people's work (data, photo, table etc.), please cite them in your presentation. Plagiarism will not be tolerated.
- I prefer you to use online presentation tools, such as: [Google Slides](http://www.google.com/slides/about/), or [one of these tools](http://lifehacker.com/five-best-online-presentation-creation-tools-1681476445), but if you insist on using PowerPoint, then please send me a pdf copy of your slides, so I can put it on the course web-page.
- When preparing the slides, please have a look at these links:
  * [Worst presentation](www.elmhurst.edu/~jacobh/WorstPresentationEverStandAlone.ppt)
  * [Presentation Tips](www.iasted.org/conferences/formatting/Presentations-Tips.ppt)
  * [Steal this presentation](http://www.slideshare.net/jessedee/steal-this-presentation-5038209)

## First Project Guidelines:

You're free to choose any of the projects. Each project has different project outcomes:

### 1- Design and manufacture an electric motor (or coil gun, or induction furnace)

Any topology is accepted as long as you built an actual working prototype. The  designs are not supposed to be professional, efficient, commercial-quality products. You can use make-shift components from junkyards etc. Your project will be evaluated in terms of the effort you put in. Project outcomes:

- A few photos showing the design process.
- A video of the working prototype (If you have an YouTube account, please  send me the link, otherwise I'll upload them to internet).
- A 1-2 page of summary that lists the materials used, working principle and the list of things that can be made to improve the performance.

### 2- Simulate the motion of two magnets repelling each other:

You're supposed to simulate the motion of two magnets placed as shown in the figure: 

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/master/presentations/magnet_repelling.png)

You are free to choose the dimensions and the properties of the magnet, but keep them realistic. One of the magnets can be fixed, or both of them can be floating. Don't neglect the gravity.

You don't have to, but I strongly advise you to use a FEA software (some options are listed above). If you don't have experience in FEA software before, [FEMM](http://www.femm.info/wiki/HomePage) is a good start.

Project outcomes:

- Source files of the simulations (not large result files)
- Series of images that has been converted in an animation, or a video (make sure the images include magnetic flux lines, or other useful visuals)
- Graph showing the angular velocity and the linear speed of the magnets versus time.

The source files (i.e. codes that you need to generate the motion and model files) has to be uploaded to an online repository (i.e. [GitHub](https://github.com/)). Have a look at [this link](http://ozan.keysan.me/okst/) for a quick start.

If you're planning to use FEMM, then the [examples](http://www.femm.info/wiki/Examples) page is very useful. In particular, have a look at these three examples:

- [DC and AC Force of a Gapped EI-Core Inductor](http://www.femm.info/wiki/ACForceExample)
- [Force on a Taper Plunger Magnet](http://www.femm.info/wiki/RotersExample)
- [Coil Gun](http://www.femm.info/wiki/CoilGun)

### 3- Design a junk-yard magnet

You're supposed to design a junk-yard magnet, which is supposed to lift [standard sized metal sheets](http://www.metricmetal.com/product_locator/sheets_and_plates.htm)(you are free to choose which material to work with, but the magnet has to lift any sheet size of that material). The magnet can be energised by any source, but please explain how you obtain the required voltage from the standard 380 V AC supply.

Project outcomes:

- Design specifications of the core (geometry, material, total mass etc)
- Coil dimensions (number of turns, coil dimensions (in AWG), total wire length)
- Efficiency data (copper losses, core losses)
- Electrical parameters (resistance, inductance etc.)

Your reports has to be [reproducible](http://www.nature.com/news/interactive-notebooks-sharing-the-code-1.16261) (i.e. it has to include codes, equations and results in a single document). The results have to be uploaded in an online repository (i.e. [GitHub](https://github.com/)). For that purpose, I personally suggest [IPython Notebook](http://ipython.org/notebook.html), which can be viewed [online](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/). However, you can also use Mathematica, [RStudio](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/) or Matlab Report Generator, but not Microsoft Word. 

If you are convinced to use IPython, here are some useful links:

- Install [Anaconda](http://continuum.io/downloads), for a quick start on Python.
- Use [Wakari](https://wakari.io), or [Sage](http://sagemath.blogspot.com.tr/2013/09/ipython-notebooks-in-cloud-with.html) to use it online.
- [IPhyton Notebook basics](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/Tooblippe/zapycon2013_ipython_science/blob/master/src/pycon13_ipython.ipynb)
- [A gallery of interesting IPython Notebooks](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/A-gallery-of-interesting-IPython-Notebooks)
- [Reproducible reports with R](http://nicercode.github.io/guides/reports/)

Have a look [this link](http://ozan.keysan.me/okst/) for other tips.

Commit message:

link for presentation pdf files

ee564.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: EE564 Design of Electrical Machines
permalink: /ee564/index.html
---

## Lecture Hours
- Monday 16:40-17:30 D135
- Wednesday 13:40-15:30 D135

## Brief Info:
This course covers basic design principles of electrical machines. You will be able to design main parameters of an electric machine such as magnetic and electric loading, number of slots, winding dimensions. Thermal and structural design of electric machines will be also covered. You will use FEA software and optimization tools to determine the best parameters.

## Presentations:

You can download PDF versions of all presentations from [this link](https://www.dropbox.com/s/bdp4dzhuum4ek3d/ee564_presentations.zip?dl=1). Note that, PDF versions can be slightly out-dated, so please check the html versions for the newest version.

- Week#1 (18/02): [Review](/presentations/ee564_intro.html)
- Week#2 (23/02): [Review-2](/presentations/ee564_intro2.html)
- Week#2 (25/02): [Transformer Design](/presentations/ee564_transformer_design.html)
- Week#3 (02/03): [Main Machine Parameters](/presentations/ee564_machine_sizing.html)
- Week#4 (09/03): [MMF Exercise](/presentations/ee564_mmf_exercise.html)
- Week#5 (16/03): [Basic Machine Dimensions](/presentations/ee564_basic_machine_design.html)
- Week#5 (18/03): [Number of slots](/presentations/ee564_basic_machine_design2.html)
- Week#6 (23/03): Carter's Coefficient, Effective Length
- Week#6 (25/03): [Tooth-Back core Flux](/presentations/ee564_tooth_flux.html)
- Week#7 (01/04): [Magnetizing Current - Magnetic Losses](/presentations/ee564_magnetizing_current_losses.html)
- Week#8 (08/04): [Resistance](/presentations/ee564_resistances.html)
- Week#9 (15/04): [Thermal Design](/presentations/ee564_thermal_design.html)

## Textbooks
- [Design of Rotating Electrical Machines](http://eu.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470740086.html), Juha Pyrhonen, Tapani Jokinen, Valeria Hrabovcova, 2009

## Grading:
- 1st Project: 15%
- 2nd Project: 25%
- Presentation: 20%
- Final: 30% (Open Book)
- Participation: 10%

## Second Project Topics

Please visit the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/odtu/ee564) for project topics and design requirements.

## First Project Topics (Deadline: 29/04):
Here are the options for the first project:
The full guidelines are given at the end of this page.

1- Design and manufacture an electric motor (or coil gun, or induction furnace)

2- Simulate the motion of two magnets repelling each other

3- Design a junkyard magnet

## Presentation Topics

Please choose one topic from below, and fill in the [online spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/173FqykIj7HfWxBJXid-JUIKdqOeXsMr1O3MJ19IN08g/edit?usp=sharing) to book your topic and date. First-come first served.

The full guidelines are given at the end of this page.

- Doubly-fed induction generators
- [Linear permanent magnet machines, Aydın Başkaya](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/aydin_linear_machines.pdf)
- Low-speed direct-drive permanent magnet machines
- [Ultra-high speed machines-Umut Güvengir](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/UHSM.pdf)
- Claw pole machines
- Superconducting machines
- Very large synchronous machines (>50 MVA)
- Micro-machines
- Fault-tolerant electric machines
- Spherical and conical electric machines
- Modular (with soft magnetic composite) machines
- [PM assisted reluctance motors, İlker Şahin](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/PMaRM_ilker.pdf)
- [Axial-flux air-cored machines, Ziya Ozkan](https://github.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/raw/master/files/564_presentations/axial_flux_ziya_ozkan.pdf)

## Online References:
- [Motor Engineer - Electric Machine Design](http://www.motor-engineer.net/engineering-center/learn/tutorial-electric-machine-design-hendershot/)
- [Electric Machines - MIT](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-685-electric-machines-fall-2013/index.htm)
- [Electric Machine Design - UoM](http://cusp.umn.edu/machine_design.php)
- [Motor Design Course](https://noppa.aalto.fi/noppa/kurssi/s-17.3030/luennot)
- [Wiley Online Library](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/subject/code/EG40/titles): (browse using METU Library)

## Software
Here you can find a few useful software on electric machine design and FEA.

#### Free/Open-Source
- [FEMM](http://www.femm.info/wiki/HomePage): 2D FEA Software
- [Motor Analysis](http://motoranalysis.com/): MATLAB GUI for induction motor design
- [Koil](http://koil.sourceforge.net/): A winding tool
- [Emetor Winding](https://www.emetor.com/edit/windings/): A tool to calculate winding factors, harmonics etc
- [Homebuilt electric motors](http://www.bavaria-direct.co.za/scheme/calculator/): Tools for brushless PM motors
- [Syre](http://sourceforge.net/projects/syr-e/) - Synchronous reluctance machine design and optimization tool

#### Commercial Products
- [Opera FEA](http://operafea.com/): 3D Electromagnetic, Thermal FEA (also models supercodnuctors)
- [MagSoft](http://magsoft-flux.com/): Flux, Portunus, Speed
- [EMWorks](http://www.emworks.com/)
- [Infolytica](http://www.infolytica.com/)
- [JMag](http://www.jmag-international.com/index.html)
- [Motor-Design](http://www.motor-design.com/index.php): EM and lumped thermal analysis
- [Quick Field](http://www.quickfield.com/free_soft.htm): Free Student edition
- [Emetor](https://www.emetor.com): Cloud FEA, free student edition
- [Quick Field](http://www.quickfield.com/): Free student edition

### Other Useful Links
- [Electric Machines](http://www.electricaleasy.com/p/electrical-machines.html)
- [AC Harmonic Phase Sequences](http://www.allaboutcircuits.com/vol_2/chpt_10/8.html)
- [Electric Machine Animations](http://www.ece.umn.edu/users/riaz/animations/listanimations.html)
- [Electric Machine Animations-2](http://www.ece.umn.edu/users/riaz/anim/maccontents.html)


## Presentation Guidelines

- One topic should be presented only once. First come first served, so please fill in the [online spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/173FqykIj7HfWxBJXid-JUIKdqOeXsMr1O3MJ19IN08g/edit?usp=sharing) asap.
- You are allowed to swap presentations dates later, but if you miss your scheduled slot, you will get 0. 
- Presentation duration: 15 minutes (+5 minutes for QA).
- You will be evaluated by you classmates using the following [score sheet](/files/564_presentation_score_sheet.pdf)

- An ideal presentation should cover the following aspects:

  * Main working principles of the machine
  * A short history
  * Differences from other machines
  * Advantages/Disadvantages
  * Application Areas

- You should prepare a handout for the audience. Please note that handouts are not the printed version of your slides. They should be in parallel with your slides, but should have more information. At the end of the handouts, there should be a reading list(5-6 papers, books) for detailed information on the topic.
- If you use other people's work (data, photo, table etc.), please cite them in your presentation. Plagiarism will not be tolerated.
- I prefer you to use online presentation tools, such as: [Google Slides](http://www.google.com/slides/about/), or [one of these tools](http://lifehacker.com/five-best-online-presentation-creation-tools-1681476445), but if you insist on using PowerPoint, then please send me a pdf copy of your slides, so I can put it on the course web-page.
- When preparing the slides, please have a look at these links:
  * [Worst presentation](www.elmhurst.edu/~jacobh/WorstPresentationEverStandAlone.ppt)
  * [Presentation Tips](www.iasted.org/conferences/formatting/Presentations-Tips.ppt)
  * [Steal this presentation](http://www.slideshare.net/jessedee/steal-this-presentation-5038209)

## First Project Guidelines:

You're free to choose any of the projects. Each project has different project outcomes:

### 1- Design and manufacture an electric motor (or coil gun, or induction furnace)

Any topology is accepted as long as you built an actual working prototype. The  designs are not supposed to be professional, efficient, commercial-quality products. You can use make-shift components from junkyards etc. Your project will be evaluated in terms of the effort you put in. Project outcomes:

- A few photos showing the design process.
- A video of the working prototype (If you have an YouTube account, please  send me the link, otherwise I'll upload them to internet).
- A 1-2 page of summary that lists the materials used, working principle and the list of things that can be made to improve the performance.

### 2- Simulate the motion of two magnets repelling each other:

You're supposed to simulate the motion of two magnets placed as shown in the figure: 

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ozank/ozank.github.io/master/presentations/magnet_repelling.png)

You are free to choose the dimensions and the properties of the magnet, but keep them realistic. One of the magnets can be fixed, or both of them can be floating. Don't neglect the gravity.

You don't have to, but I strongly advise you to use a FEA software (some options are listed above). If you don't have experience in FEA software before, [FEMM](http://www.femm.info/wiki/HomePage) is a good start.

Project outcomes:

- Source files of the simulations (not large result files)
- Series of images that has been converted in an animation, or a video (make sure the images include magnetic flux lines, or other useful visuals)
- Graph showing the angular velocity and the linear speed of the magnets versus time.

The source files (i.e. codes that you need to generate the motion and model files) has to be uploaded to an online repository (i.e. [GitHub](https://github.com/)). Have a look at [this link](http://ozan.keysan.me/okst/) for a quick start.

If you're planning to use FEMM, then the [examples](http://www.femm.info/wiki/Examples) page is very useful. In particular, have a look at these three examples:

- [DC and AC Force of a Gapped EI-Core Inductor](http://www.femm.info/wiki/ACForceExample)
- [Force on a Taper Plunger Magnet](http://www.femm.info/wiki/RotersExample)
- [Coil Gun](http://www.femm.info/wiki/CoilGun)

### 3- Design a junk-yard magnet

You're supposed to design a junk-yard magnet, which is supposed to lift [standard sized metal sheets](http://www.metricmetal.com/product_locator/sheets_and_plates.htm)(you are free to choose which material to work with, but the magnet has to lift any sheet size of that material). The magnet can be energised by any source, but please explain how you obtain the required voltage from the standard 380 V AC supply.

Project outcomes:

- Design specifications of the core (geometry, material, total mass etc)
- Coil dimensions (number of turns, coil dimensions (in AWG), total wire length)
- Efficiency data (copper losses, core losses)
- Electrical parameters (resistance, inductance etc.)

Your reports has to be [reproducible](http://www.nature.com/news/interactive-notebooks-sharing-the-code-1.16261) (i.e. it has to include codes, equations and results in a single document). The results have to be uploaded in an online repository (i.e. [GitHub](https://github.com/)). For that purpose, I personally suggest [IPython Notebook](http://ipython.org/notebook.html), which can be viewed [online](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/). However, you can also use Mathematica, [RStudio](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/) or Matlab Report Generator, but not Microsoft Word. 

If you are convinced to use IPython, here are some useful links:

- Install [Anaconda](http://continuum.io/downloads), for a quick start on Python.
- Use [Wakari](https://wakari.io), or [Sage](http://sagemath.blogspot.com.tr/2013/09/ipython-notebooks-in-cloud-with.html) to use it online.
- [IPhyton Notebook basics](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/Tooblippe/zapycon2013_ipython_science/blob/master/src/pycon13_ipython.ipynb)
- [A gallery of interesting IPython Notebooks](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/A-gallery-of-interesting-IPython-Notebooks)
- [Reproducible reports with R](http://nicercode.github.io/guides/reports/)

Have a look [this link](http://ozan.keysan.me/okst/) for other tips.
