---
layout: page
title: Furkan Tokgöz
permalink: /references/furkant/index.html
---

### Reference Letter for Furkan Tokgöz

### 30/11/2021

To whom it may concern,

This reference letter is provided at the request of Mr. Furkan Tokgöz for his PhD applications. Furkan got his BSc from Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of METU in 2019, with an CGPA of 3.03 of 4.00. It should be noted that our department accepts only top 0.1% students from Turkey to its undergraduate programs. Last year, among more than 2 million applicants of the university entrance exam, only 200 students from the top 2000 have been accepted to the B.Sc Program of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department. Furthermore, our department has been evaluated among the world’s best 200 Electrical-Electronics Engineering Departments in the world in QS ([more information](https://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/university-subject-rankings/2019/engineering-electrical-electronic)). 

I know Furkan for over three years from several undergraduate classes and as his MSc supervisor. While he was in his undergraduate, Furkan volunteered to join the [STAR projects](http://star.eee.metu.edu.tr/), a program that aims to get undergraduate students participated in research projects with faculty members. The students volunteer to join in research projects without any obligation. Furkan started working on printed-circuit-board (PCB) motors in his undergraduate project. After completing his BSc, he became an active member of our research group [PowerLab](http://power.eee.metu.edu.tr) in METU. 

Furkan first worked as a research assistant on a project on designing a PCB motor for a high performance position control for an aerospace gimbal application. Furkan developed the FEA simulation tools (using ANSYS Maxwell). He also developed the analytical model and optimization tool to speed up the design process for different applications. Furkan also designed the PCB layout, get it manufactured, completed the experiments and published a journal paper comparing performances of different stator winding layouts in his first year of MSc. Furkan is now working on a new version of the PCB motor, integrating motor drive with the PCB motor. He uses a GaN based VSI to achieve a high switching frequency (up to 1 MHz) to minimize current ripples as the PCB motors have low phase inductance. Furkan designed the drive, and the enclosing body, get it manufactured using a CNC router, and assembled it. He improved his knowledge not only in electromagnetic finite element simulations, but also mechanical modelling and CAD design. He also implemented thermal FEA models and developed new methods to discharge heat generated by the PCB coils and the GaN drive.

This year, Furkan started working as an RA in a 4.3 MW wind turbine generator project. The generator is a 6-phase copper-bar squirrel induction generator. Furkan helped on the electromagnetic simulations, designed the winding layout and helped the mechanical and thermal design teams. He improved his knowledge on standards on electrical machines, manufacturing process and generating production documents for an electrical machine. The generator is going to be manufactured in 2022. Furkan improved his team-working skills in this project, and learnt to transfer his knowledge to people outside the field.

Since 2020, he is also employed as a teaching assistant in our department. Since then, he enjoys to help the undergraduate students and to teach in the laboratory sessions. He was the coordinator for 3rd year undergraduate [electromechanical energy conversion](http://keysan.me/) and 4th year undergraduate [power electronics course](https://github.com/odtu/ee463) always with very positive feedback from the students. Without requiring any input from me, he took initiative to improve the courses, software projects and laboratory session. He would volunteer on any task regarding courses and labs. He always has the motivation to learn new things and works independently.

Furkan is very good at analytical thinking and approaching a problem systematically. He improved his knowledge in different aspects of design and manufacturing of electrical machines and I am sure he will be a very hardworking, responsible and productive team member. I therefore strongly recommend Furkan Tokgöz in his PhD application. If I can provide you with any further information, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Yours Sincerely,

