---
layout: page
title: Gökhan Çakal
permalink: /references/gokhan/index.html
---

### Reference Letter for Gökhan Çakal

### 14/12/2020

To whom it may concern,

This reference letter is provided at the request of Mr. Gökhan Çakal for his PhD applications. Gökhan got his BSc from Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of METU in 2017, with an CGPA of 3.38 of 4.00. It should be noted that our department accepts only top %0.1 students from Turkey to its undergraduate programs. Last year, among more than 1.8 million applicants of the university entrance exam, only 200 students from the top 2000 have been accepted to the B.Sc Program of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department. Furthermore, our department has been evaluated among the world’s best 200 Electrical-Electronics Engineering Departments in the world in QS ([more information](https://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/university-subject-rankings/2019/engineering-electrical-electronic)). 

I know Gökhan for over four years from several undergraduate classes and as his MSc supervisor. While he was in his undergraduate, Gökhan volunteered to join the [STAR projects](http://star.eee.metu.edu.tr/), a program that aims to get undergraduate students participated in research projects with faculty members. The students volunteer to join in research projects without any obligation. Gökhan practiced using  a commercial hardware in the loop (HIL) system (SpeedGoat) on motor driver controllers. After completing his BSc, he became an active member of our research group [PowerLab](http://power.eee.metu.edu.tr) in METU. 

He first worked as a research assistant on a project on designing a printed-circuit-board(PCB) motor for a high performance position control for an aerospace gimbal application. Gökhan successfully designed the motor both analytically and validated the design by using 3D FEA software (ANSYS Maxwell). He then implemented a genetic algorithm optimization in MATLAB and came up with an optimal design which is manufactured and the experimental results proved his analytical models. Gökhan then implemented a reduced torque ripple rotary voice coil motor for an aerospace application larger gimbal that requires sensitive position control. The motor is now in the way of commercialization with an integrated GaN motor drive. Gökhan keeps contributing on the second phase of the project with motor design, thermal simulations and mechanical integrations. I believe he increased his knowledge immensely in this project not only for electromagnetic design, but also for all stages of electrical machine and motor drive manufacturing.

Gökhan completed his MSc in 2020 under my supervision. In his MSc thesis, Gökhan worked on a novel axial flux permanent-magnet machine. The idea, which is mainly developed by Gökhan, is to manufacture the stator windings from aluminum or copper sheets cut in to special shapes with laser or water-jet cutters. The topology brings ease of manufacturing, especially for automated production. Gökhan successfully developed analytical and FEA models for this novel topology, always pushing his limits to improve his theoretic knowledge in the field and his practical knowledge in manufacturing and experimental techniques.  Gökhan is always curious and would like challenges and push his limits further by improving his knowledge in every aspects of his research topic. Gökhan is a quick learner and is able to work independently and combine his theoretical knowledge with the practical concepts. He is also very active from the academic perspective, He managed to publish three journal papers (all in top notch journals), three conference papers, and made an international patent application (pending), during his MSc studies. 

After completing his MSc, he is still working as an active research associate in our group. He is now working on the design of a 4.5 MW copper-bar asynchronous generator for a wind turbine. He is working closely with Aselsan and AEMOT, two leading companies in Turkey. Gökhan is leading a group of six RAs working for that project, and he is managing communication with the companies. Although, he is still personally working on electromagnetic optimization of the generator, in which he is already an expert, this new role shows his team-working and communication skills. I am really happy to have his on board in this project, his punctuality, and organization skills make it much easier for me to supervise the project. 

Since 2018, he is also employed as a teaching assistant in our department. Since then, he enjoys to help the undergraduate students and to teach in the laboratory sessions. He was the coordinator for 3rd year undergraduate [electromechanical energy conversion](http://keysan.me/) and 4th year undergraduate [power electronics course](https://github.com/odtu/ee463) always with very positive feedback from the students. Without requiring any input from me, he took initiative to improve the courses, software projects and laboratory session. He would volunterr on any task regarding courses and labs. He always has the motivation to learn new things and works independently. In order to improve his skills, on top of the normal course load of his MSc program, he completed a seven course online program on [Power Electronics on Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/power-electronics) instructed by Prof. Robert Erickson. 

Gökhan is very good at analytical thinking and approaching a problem systematically. He works independently, in a structured and dedicated way that helps him to crack any difficult problem he faced in his research projects. I am sure he will be a very hardworking, responsible and productive team member and he gained enough theoretical and practical expertise in the field of electrical machines to be successful in a PhD in this area. Please do not hesitate to contact me for further questions.

Yours Sincerely,

